This week’s topic: Vegetables - https://www.bambooweekly.com/p/bw-4-eating-well

Growing up, my family generally ate healthy food, including fruits and
vegetables. Indeed, my mother always made sure that my school lunch had not
just a sandwich, but also a yellow vegetable and a green vegetable. I
certainly knew that the other children didn’t eat many vegetables, but it
took a good number of years until I realized just how few many of my friends ate.

I was reminded of that when reading a story in Axios several days ago, in
which they quoted a study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC), claiming that half of young American children were eating less than one
vegetable per day. I mean, we know that Americans don’t eat a lot of fresh
vegetables, and we know that kids can be picky eaters, but … wow, could that
possibly be true? And it true throughout the US?

This week, we’ll try to find out, by looking at the data from that CDC study,
known as the National Survey of Children's Health (NSCH). The study looked at
children 5 and younger, and asked all sorts of questions — not just about
their eating habits, but also about such topics and allergies and speaking
abilities. It also collected demographic information, including about race,
which is important, but which we won’t look at here.

This week, I want you to download the data:
https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/nsch/data/datasets.html.
In particular, here’s what I want you to do:
(a) Download the topical data file, in SAS format, from:
https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/nsch/datasets/2021/nsch_2021_topical_SAS.zip.
(b) Turn it into a data frame. We're only interested in the following columns:
FIPSST
VEGETABLE
FRUIT
SUGARDRINK
(c) Turn the FIPSST column into an integer, and make it the index.

Analytics Questions
1. What percentage of children had, on average, less than one vegetable
per day during the week preceding the study?
2. What percentage of children had, on average, less than one vegetable
per day and less than one fruit per day during the week preceding the study?
3. What percentage of children had, on average, less than one vegetable
per day and less than one fruit per day and did have a sugary drink during
the week preceding the study?

Download the FIPS state reference info, in CSV format, from:
https://www2.census.gov/geo/docs/reference/state.txt.
Turn this into a data frame, with the STATE column as the index.
The only other column we care about is STATE_NAME.

1. What percentage of children, per state, had, on average, less than one
vegetaable per day during the week preceding the study?

The learning goals for this week are to work with SAS-formatted data,
using boolean operators, and joining data from two data frames together.

I’ll be back tomorrow (on Thursday) with my answers to these questions.

Reuven